---
title: Introducing Challenge Health Measures
date: 2021-09-01T19:50:39-07:00
author: Martijn
category: Uncategorized
---

I want everyone to enjoy fixing and improving OpenStreetMap with
MapRoulette. Whenever I talk to MapRoulette users, I ask them what the
one single thing is that I could do to improve their time spent using
MapRoulette. The answer I get by far the most frequently is: “Please do
something about old and irrelevant tasks!”

In the next version of MapRoulette, we introduce two changes to
MapRoulette Challenges that will hopefully go a long way to improve task
quality: Archiving stale Challenges and capping the number of tasks per
Challenge. In this post, I will discuss both.

## Archiving Stale Challenges

Creating Challenges in MapRoulette is
[easy](https://learn.maproulette.org/screencasts/create-a-challenge-with-overpass/#content).
I want it to be that way, everyone with a little bit of OpenStreetMap
experience should be able to create one. A side effect of this is that
quite a few mappers create one or more Challenges, and then never check
back in to see how their Challenges are doing, if mappers have
questions, et cetera. We already introduced Challenge Comments and
required Challenge authors to set an email address where they can
receive MapRoulette-related notifications.

Now we are taking it one step further by archiving Challenges that have
Tasks that were created more than 6 months ago. This will gently force
Challenge authors to come back and revisit their Challenge, refreshing
the tasks. They will get an email notification when the Challenge is
being archived because of staleness.

We may refine this system in the future and I am hoping for your input.

## Cap on the number of Tasks per Challenge

In addition to archiving stale Challenges, we are also imposing a cap on
the number of Tasks allowed per Challenge. This used to be unlimited,
but it will be 50,000 going forward. What we hope to achieve with this
is that Challenge authors think carefully about the Tasks they are
asking the OSM community to solve. It’s easy to create a large Challenge
to cover, say, all the parks in the world. We would rather see
Challenges that are more targeted, so that the community feels more
connected to the Challenge. Limit the Challenge to a single country, for
example. See how that goes, then add more Challenges for other
countries. (This is quite easy if you use Overpass and the Cloning
function for existing Challenges.)

We hope that these changes end up being the improvements I want them to
be, so everyone can enjoy MapRoulette more. Let me know what you think.
Happy mapping!
